### Australia bushfires — Report (06.01.2020 - 31.01.2020)

- The bush fire crisis continues across eastern Australia in eastern New South Wales (NSW), including the Greater Sydney Region, eastern Victoria, South Australia, and Australian Capital Territory.
- According to the Crisis Coordination Centre of the Australian Government, as of 31 January, 33 people have died as a result of the fires (including 9 firefighters), 25 across NSW, 5 in Victoria and 3 more in South Australia. Around 10.9 million (17.1 million were reported on 14 January) hectares were burnt, and approximately 3,000 houses destroyed countrywide. The most affected State is the NSW with more than 5.4 million hectares burnt and around 2,400 houses destroyed. Bushfires near Canberra airport resulted in the preventative evacuation and grounding of a number of flights.
- An alert is in place for Australian Capital Territory as of 31 January. According to the EU's Global Wildfire Information System (GWIS), the fire danger forecast will remain moderate to extreme across most of NSW, Victoria, and eastern South Australia and high to extreme on Australian Capital Territory.
- Hailstorms, dust storms and heavy rain with thunderstorms hit south-eastern Australia, particularly New South Wales and Victoria States over the last few days, leading to casualties and damage.
- As of 21 January, media report two injuries, transportation disruptions and widespread damage in Canberra as a result of a hail storm, flash floods and landslides. In addition, 2200 houses remained without power in south Sydney after two storms. More heavy rain is forecast across southern Victoria and south-western New South Wales. The Australian Government Bureau of Meteorology (BOM) has issued severe weather warnings across the aforementioned areas
- As of 12 January, the New South Wales’ (NSW) Health facilities are generally functioning well. NSW Health is distributing one million Commonwealth-provided masks to hospitals, health facilities recovery and evacuation centres in affected areas. The fire danger ratings will be in the low-moderate to high range in the coming days.
- As of 11 January at 7.30 UTC, only one emergency warning has been issued (for Victoria). 15 fires are classified under watch and act level (second higher level) : 10 in Victoria, four in New South Wales and one in Western Australia.
- As of 10 January at 7.30 UTC, 8 emergency warnings have been issued for Victoria and an evacuation order is in effect for the Alpine region. 147 fires continue to burn across NSW, 57 across Victoria, and 5 on Kangaroo Island (South Australia). Hot and dry weather conditions with strong winds are forecast over south-eastern Australia on 10-11 January.
- As of 9 January, there are at least 135 fires burning across NSW, 83 across Victoria and 5 in South Australia, including Kangaroo Island. Victoria has declared a state of emergency and advised the evacuation of several eastern regions. Various government authorities and humanitarian partners such as Australian Red Cross have been mobilised for firefighting operations and to assist the affected communities.
- As of 7 January, the intense fires and resulting smoke continue to impact air quality in major Australian cities, including Sydney, Canberra, Melbourne and Adelaide.
- 3,000 army reservists were deployed on 4 January, along with additional firefighting aircraft and the navy’s largest ship to evac uate thousands of stranded residents along the coast. The USA and Canada have sent ground forest firefighting teams to Australia to support national response efforts.
